---
date: 2025-01-14T22:02:00+01:00
---
## 😈 I quit my master

Just this morning, I sent an email resigning from [my master program](https://aissprogram.eu 'Artificial Intelligence for Sustainable Societies').

I added the naughty face before the heading because dropping out of any kind of institutional education is often potrayed as a negative and silly decision. I believe it is not true, and I am glad I made this tormented choice, although it has been very hard to do.

I have many considerations about this, and I have learned many lessons by spending the past semester in Tallinn. I am open to chatting about it all, but to be honest I do not feel like writing about it here, because it has been exshausting, and now I just **want to move on**.

Nevertheless, this means that I am currently unemployed and I am weighing various options for my future. There is *one thing* in particular I am hoping to come true, but let’s not jinx it.

## 🌆 Moving back to Berlin

In the buffer period between dropping out of my master and starting something new, I am staying at my parents’, in Riva Ligure, my hometown. It is sweet, cosy, and heartwarming to sleep in my beloved [Xplosion Attic](content/jam/public/Xplosion%20Attic.md), but I know myself well enough to know that soon I will need to be (and to live) somewhere that feels like home while being more stimulating and enriching than Riva Ligure or Sanremo.

Berlin is that place, and I plan to move back there between the end of February and March 2025. ==I am looking for a WG!== Do [get in touch](mailto:{{ site.author.email | obfuscateEmail }}) if you have any contacts or suggestions to share!

## 🧶 Launching <cite>Knitting Our Internet</cite> 🎉

[In the past few months](#2024-09-02 'Previously doing'), I have spent a lot of time enriching and refining <cite>Knitting Our Internet</cite>, my workshop about decentralization and the history of the Internet.

I soft-launched its website between October and November 2024, but now it is almost ready to be properly announced and shared 👀. I am ironing out the last few details, and I plan to launch it officially before, during, or just after [FOSDEM](https://2025.fosdem.org 'FOSDEM 2025') and [OFFDEM](https://offdem.net/ 'OFFDEM').

<div class='flex'>
	<a class='red button' href='https://ournet.rocks' title='🪡 Knitting Our Internet 🧶'>Find out more</a>
	<a class='blue button' href='https://github.com/users/xplosionmind/projects/3' title='ournet project management, GitHub'>Roadmap</a>
</div>

## 🤔 The future of <cite>Scambi Festival</cite>

In 2020, I co-founded <cite>[Scambi](https://scambi.org/en/ 'Scambi, The Festival of Paneurethic Workshops')</cite>, the Festival of Paneurethic workshops. Last summer I became its president again, and I am taking care of the bureaucracy for the time being.

At the same time, even if the project is now on hiatus, I have been reflecting a lot about potential ways to bring it forward, especially by following the many sharp changes in the lives and priorities of the members of the association.

How to make a local non-profit stay active and relevant if all its members are in different and remote places? How to find a good balance between long term sustainability and doing cool ativities when the team is here? These are two of the many questions we are thinking about. I have a couple of ideas in mind, but we will see.

## 🖥️ Self-hosted photo management

Rarely I am in my hometown long enough to address more complex and and time consuming technical chores using [Linuxplosion](content/jam/public/Linuxplosion.md).

This time, I am here for a couple of months, so I am completely rearranging and restructuring my audiovisual archive on [Aby](content/jam/public/Aby.md), at last. It is going to be an infinite, stressful, and excruciating work, but I absolutely must get it done, so I can forget about it.
